[DOCS-2174] Database Monitoring product documentation (#11195)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/database_monitoring/setup_postgres/gcsql.md

{{< tabs >}}
{{% tab "Host" %}}

To configure Database Monitoring metrics collection for an Agent running on a host, for example when you provision a small GCE instance for the Agent to collect from a Google Cloud SQL database:

1. Edit the `postgres.d/conf.yaml` file to point to your `host` / `port` and set the masters to monitor. See the [sample postgres.d/conf.yaml][1] for all available configuration options.
   ```yaml
   init_config:
   instances:
     - dbm: true
       host: '<INSTANCE_ADDRESS>'
       port: 5432
       username: datadog
       password: '<PASSWORD>'
       ## Optional: Connect to a different database if needed for `custom_queries`
       # dbname: '<DB_NAME>'
   ```
2. [Restart the Agent][2].

[1]: https://github.com/DataDog/integrations-core/blob/master/postgres/datadog_checks/postgres/data/conf.yaml.example
[2]: /agent/guide/agent-commands/#start-stop-and-restart-the-agent
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Docker" %}}

To configure the Database Monitoring Agent running in a Docker container such as in Google Cloud Run, you can set the [Autodiscovery Integration Templates][1] as Docker labels on your agent container.

> **Note**: the Agent must have read permission on the docker socket for Autodiscovery of labels to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note**: The Agent must have read permission on the docker socket for Autodiscovery of labels to work.
```

Author: ```suggestion
**Note**: The Agent must have read permission on the Docker socket for Autodiscovery of labels to work.
```

### Command line

> Get up and running quickly by executing the following command to run the agent from your command line. Replace the values to match your account and environment:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get up and running quickly by executing the following command to run the Agent from your command line. Replace the values to match your account and environment:
```

  || echo -e "\e[0;31mCannot read from pg_stat_activity\e[0m"
psql -h localhost -U datadog postgres -A \
  -c "select * from pg_stat_statements limit 1;" \
  && echo -e "\e[0;32mPostgres pg_stat_statements read OK\e[0m" \
  || echo -e "\e[0;31mCannot read from pg_stat_statements\e[0m"
```
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab "Postgres 9.6" %}}

```shell
psql -h localhost -U datadog postgres -A \
  -c "select * from pg_stat_database limit 1;" \
  && echo -e "\e[0;32mPostgres connection - OK\e[0m" \
  || echo -e "\e[0;31mCannot connect to Postgres\e[0m"
psql -h localhost -U datadog postgres -A \
  -c "select * from pg_stat_activity limit 1;" \
  && echo -e "\e[0;32mPostgres pg_stat_activity read OK\e[0m" \
  || echo -e "\e[0;31mCannot read from pg_stat_activity\e[0m"
psql -h localhost -U datadog postgres -A \
  -c "select * from pg_stat_statements limit 1;" \
  && echo -e "\e[0;32mPostgres pg_stat_statements read OK\e[0m" \
  || echo -e "\e[0;31mCannot read from pg_stat_statements\e[0m"
```

{{% /tab %}}
{{< /tabs >}}

When it prompts for a password, use the password you entered when you created the `datadog` user.

## Install the Agent

> To monitor Cloud SQL hosts, the Agent should be installed somewhere in your infrastructure and configured to connect to each instance remotely. The agent does not need to run on the database, it only needs to connect to it. For additional Agent installation methods not mentioned here, see the [Agent installation instructions][8].

Author: ```suggestion
To monitor Cloud SQL hosts, install the Datadog Agent in your infrastructure and configured to connect to each instance remotely. The Agent does not need to run on the database, it only needs to connect to it. For additional Agent installation methods not mentioned here, see the [Agent installation instructions][8].
```
